=head1 MakeGrid2D

=over 14

=item MakeGrid2D -  

Create a 2D cylindrical map from a set of spherical harmonic coefficients.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 24

=item SUBROUTINE MakeGrid2D ( 

GRID, CILM, LMAX, INTERVAL, NLAT, NLONG, NORM, CSPHASE, F, A, NORTH, SOUTH, EAST, WEST, DEALLOC )

=back

=over 4

=over 19

=item REAL*8	

GRID(180/INTERVAL+1, 360/INTERVAL+1), S<CILM(2, LMAX+1, LMAX+1)>, INTERVAL

=item INTEGER

LMAX, NLAT, NLONG

=item INTEGER, OPTIONAL

NORM, CSPHASE, DEALLOC

=item REAL*8, OPTIONAL

F, A, NORTH, SOUTH, EAST, WEST

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<MakeGrid2D> will create a 2-dimensional cylindrical map, equally spaced in (geocentric) latitude and longitude, from a set of input spherical harmonic coefficients. The output grid is in raster format possessing upper-left and lower-right coordinates of (90 N, 0 E) and (90 S, 360 E), repsectively. If the optional parameters NORTH, SOUTH, EAST and WEST are specified, then the output grid will possess upper-left and lower-right coordinates of (NORTH, WEST) and (SOUTH, EAST), repsectively. The employed spherical harmonic normalization and Condon-Shortley phase convention can be set by the optional arguments NORM and CSPHASE; if not set, the default is to use geodesy 4-pi normalized harmonics that exclude the Condon-Shortley phase of (-1)^m.

If the optional arguments F and A are specified, the output function will be referenced to an ellipsoid with flattening F and semimajor axis A. 

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 11

=item GRID

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION(180/INTERVAL+1, 360/INTERVAL+1)

A 2D equally spaced map of the input spherical harmonic coefficients CILM. The  array is in raster format with upper-left and lower-right coordinates of (90 N, 0 E) and (90 S, 360 E), respectively.

=item CILM 

(input) REAL*8, DIMENSION (2, LMAX+1, LMAX+1)

The real spherical harmonic coefficients to be expanded in the space domain. The coefficients C1lm and C2lm refer to the "cosine" (Clm) and "sine" (Slm) coefficients, respectively, with Clm = CILM(1, l+1, m+1) and Slm = CILM(2, l+1, m+1). Alternatively, C1lm and C2lm correspond to the positive and negative order coefficients, respectively.
	
=item LMAX

(input) INTEGER

The maximum spherical harmonic degree of the coefficients CILM.

=item INTERVAL

(input) REAL*8

The latitudinal and longitudinal spacing of GRID.
	
=item NLAT

(output) INTEGER

The number of latitudinal samples. Both 90 N and 90 S are included.

=item NLONG

(output) INTEGER

The number of longitudinal samples. Both 0 and 360 E are included.
	
=item NORM

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

1 (default) = Geodesy 4-pi normalized harmonics; 2 = Schmidt semi-normalized harmonics; 3 = unnormalized harmonics; 4 = orthonormal harmonics.

=item CSPHASE

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

1 (default) = do not apply the Condon-Shortley phase factor to the associated Legendre functions; -1 = append the Condon-Shortley phase factor of (-1)^m to the associated Legendre functions.

=item F

(input) REAL*8, OPTIONAL

The flattening of the reference ellipoid that is subtracted from the function. This is given by (R_equator - R_pole) / R_equator. The semi-major axis A (i.e., R_equator) must be specified for this calculation.

=item A

(input) REAL*8, OPTIONAL

The semi-major axis of the reference ellispoid that is subtracted from the function. The flattening F must be specified for this calculation.

=item NORTH

(input) REAL*8, OPTIONAL

The maximum latitude of the output raster grid, in degrees. The default is 90 degrees.

=item SOUTH

(input) REAL*8, OPTIONAL

The minimum latitude of the output raster grid, in degrees. The default is -90 degrees.

=item EAST

(input) REAL*8, OPTIONAL

The maximum longitude of the output raster grid, in degrees. The default is 360 degrees.

=item WEST

(input) REAL*8, OPTIONAL

The minimum longitude of the output raster grid, in degrees. The default is 0 degrees.

=item DEALLOC

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

0 (default) = Save variables used in the external Legendre function calls. (1) Deallocate this memory at the end of the funcion call.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

shexpanddh(1), makegriddh(1), shexpandglq(1), makegridglq(1), makegravgrid2d(1), makemaggrid2d(1)

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.