=head1 PlON_d1

=over 10

=item PlON_d1 -  

Compute all the "orthonormalized" Legendre polynomials and first derivatives.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 21

=item SUBROUTINE PlON_d1 ( 

P, DP, LMAX, Z )

=back

=over 4

=over 10

=item REAL*8	

P(LMAX+1), DP(LMAX+1), Z

=item INTEGER

LMAX

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<PlON_d1> will calculate all of the "orthonormalized" Legendre polynomials and first derivatives up to degree LMAX for a given argument. These are calculated using a standard three-term recursion formula, and the integral of the "orthonormalized" Legendre polynomials over the interval [-1, 1] is 2/(4pi). Note that the derivative of the Legendre polynomials is calculated with respect to its arguement Z, and not latitude or colatitude. If Z=cos(theta), where theta is the colatitude, then it is only necessary to multiply DP by -sin(theta) to obtain the derivative with respect to theta.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 10

=item P

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION (LMAX+1)

An array of "orthonormalized" Legendre polynomials up to degree LMAX. Degree L corresponds to array index L+1.
	
=item DP

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION (LMAX+1)

An array of the first derivatives of the "orthonormalized" Legendre polynomials up to degree LMAX. Degree L corresponds to array index L+1.

=item LMAX

(input) INTEGER

The maximum degree of the Legendre polynomials to be computed.

=item Z

(input) REAL*8

The argument of the Legendre polynomial.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

plbar(1), plbar_d1(1), plmbar(1), plmbar_d1(1), plon(1), plmon(1), plmon_d1(1), plschmidt(1), plschmidt_d1(1), plmschmidt(1), plmschmidt_d1(1), plegendre(1), plegendre_d1(1), plegendrea(1), plegendrea_d1(1)

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.