=head1 SHCindexToCilm

=over 17

=item SHCindexToCilm -  

Convert a two-dimensional indexed array of spherical harmonic coefficients to a three-dimensional array.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 28

=item SUBROUTINE SHCindexToCilm ( 

CINDEX, CILM, DEGMAX )

=back

=over 4

=over 20

=item REAL*8	

CINDEX(2, *), CILM(2, *, *)

=item INTEGER, OPTIONAL

DEGMAX

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<SHCindexToCilm> will convert a two-dimensional indexed array of spherical harmonic coefficients to a three-dimensional array of complex spherical harmonic coefficients.  The degree L and order M corresponds to the index L*(L+1)/2+M+1. The default is to convert the entire array CINDEX, but a subset of this array can be converted by specifying the optional argument DEGMAX.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 13

=item CILM
	
=item CINDEX

(input) REAL*8, DIMENSION (2, *)

The indexed spherical harmonic coefficients. The second dimension of this array must be greater than (LMAX+1)*(LMAX+2)/2 where LMAX is the maximum degree of CILM.

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION (2, *, *)

The input spherical harmonic coefficients. S<CILM(1, *, *)> and S<CILM(2, *, *)> correspond to either the real and imaginary components, or cosine and sine coefficients, respectively.

=item DEGMAX

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

The maximum degree of the output coefficients. By default, the entire array CCILM will be converted.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

shctor(1), shrtoc(1), shcindextocilm(1)

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>


=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.