=head1 SHMultiply

=over 13

=item SHMultiply -  

Multiply two functions and determine the resulting spherical harmonic coefficients.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 24

=item SUBROUTINE SHMultiply ( 

SHOUT, SH1, LMAX1, SH2, LMAX2, PRECOMP, NORM, CSPHASE )

=back

=over 4

=over 19

=item REAL*8	

SHOUT(2, LMAX1+LMAX2+1, LMAX1+LMAX2+1), S<SH1(2, LMAX1+1, LMAX1+1)>, S<SH2(2, LMAX2+1, LMAX2+1)>

=item INTEGER

LMAX1, LMAX2

=item INTEGER, OPTIONAL

PRECOMP, NORM, CSPHASE

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<SHMultiply> will take two sets of spherical harmonic coefficients, multiply them in the space domain, and expand the resulting field in spherical harmonics using I<SHExpandGLQ>. The spherical harmonic bandwidth of the resulting field is LMAX1+LMAX2, where LMAX1 and LMAX2 are the bandwidths of the input fields. If the optional parameter PRECOMP is set, then the Legendre functions will be precomputed on the Gauss-Legendre quadrature nodes (these are thus calculated only once, as opposed to three times).

The employed spherical harmonic normalization and Condon-Shortley phase convention can be set by the optional arguments NORM and CSPHASE; if not set, the default is to use geodesy 4-pi normalized harmonics that exclude the Condon-Shortley phase of (-1)^m.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 11

=item SHOUT

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION (2, LMAX1+LMAX2+1, LMAX1+LMAX2+1)

The real spherical harmonic coefficients of the space domain mulitplication of SH1 and SH2.
	
=item SH1

(input) REAL*8, DIMENSION (2, LMAX1+1, LMAX1+1)

The spherical harmonic coefficients of the first function.

=item LMAX1

(input) INTEGER

The spherical harmonic bandwidth of SH1.

=item SH2

(input) REAL*8, DIMENSION (2, LMAX2+1, LMAX2+1)

The spherical harmonic coefficients of the second function.

=item LMAX2

(input) INTEGER

The spherical harmonic bandwidth of SH2.

=item PRECOMP

(input) INTEGER

If 1, the Legendre functions will be precomputed on the Gauss-Legendre quadrature nodes. If 0, they will not be precomputed.
	
=item NORM

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

1 (default) = Geodesy 4-pi normalized harmonics; 2 = Schmidt semi-normalized harmonics; 3 = unnormalized harmonics; 4 = orthonormal harmonics.

=item CSPHASE

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

1 (default) = do not apply the Condon-Shortley phase factor to the associated Legendre functions; -1 = append the Condon-Shortley phase factor of (-1)^m to the associated Legendre functions.

=back

=head1 NOTES

This routine makes use of the Gauss-Legendre quadrature routines I<MakeGridGLQ> and I<SHExpandGLQ>. While these could be substituted by I<MakeGridDH> and I<SHExpandDH>, the routines would be twice as slow.

=head1 SEE ALSO

shexpandglq(1), makegridglq(1), precompute(1)

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>


=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.