=head1 SHRead2

=over 14

=item SHRead2 -  

Read spherical harmonic coefficients from a CHAMP or GRACE-like ASCII file.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 21

=item SUBROUTINE SHRead2 ( 

FILENAME, CILM, LMAX, GM, R0_POT, ERROR, DOT, DOYSTART, DOYEND, EPOCH )

=back

=over 4

=over 22

=item CHARACTER(*)

FILENAME

=item REAL*8	

CILM(2, LMAX+1, LMAX+1), GM, R0_POT

=item INTEGER

LMAX

=item REAL*8, OPTIONAL

ERROR(2, LMAX+1, LMAX+1), DOT(2, :, :), DOYSTART, DOYEND, EPOCH

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<SHRead2> will read spherical harmonic coefficients from a CHAMP or GRACE-like ASCII formatted file into an array CILM. The errors and time derivatives associated with the coefficients will be read if the optional arrays ERROR and DOT are specified, respectively. The staring and ending date of the solution are specified by the optional parameters DOYSTART and DOYEND, and the epoch of the time derivates is specified by the optional parameter EPOCH. The maximum spherical harmonic degree is read from the file, and the file does not need to be ordered by angular degree or order.

This routine does not read and output all parameters in the file. Records that are read (and at least partially output) include: EARTH, GGM, SHM, GRCOF2, GRDOTA, CALSDV, gfc, gfct, and dot. Comments specified by the record CMMNT will be print out to the screen, as will the record names that are not currently implemented.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 14

=item FILENAME

(input) CHARACTER(*)

The ASCII filename containing the spherical harmonic coefficients.
	
=item CILM

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION (2, LMAX+1, LMAX+1)

The spherical harmonic coefficients contained in FILENAME.

=item LMAX

(output) INTEGER

The maximum spherical harmonic degree of CILM.

=item GM

(output) REAL*8

The mass-gravitational constant.

=item R0_POT

(output) REAL*8

The reference radius of the potential coefficients.

=item ERROR

(output) REAL*8, OPTIONAL, DIMENSION (2, LMAX+1, LMAX+1)

The errors corresponding to the spherical harmonic coefficients CILM.

=item DOT 

(output) REAL*8, OPTIONAL, DIMENSION (2, :, :)

The time derivatives of the spherical harmonic coefficients. The dimension of this array can be smaller than LMAX+1.

item DOYSTART

(output) REAL*8, OPTIONAL

The starting time of the solution.

item DOYEND

(output) REAL*8, OPTIONAL

The ending time of the solution

item EPOCH

(output) REAL*8, OPTIONAL

The EPOCH time for the time derivates.

=back

=head1 NOTES

Each line of the file starts with a character string describing what follows. 

1. "EARTH" or "GGM": GM, R0_POT

2. "SHM": Maximum spherical harmonic degree of file.

3. "GRCOF2", "CALSDV", or "gfc": spherical harmonic coefficients, formatted as (l, m, clm, slm) or (l, m, clm, slm, clm_error, slm_error).


=head1 SEE ALSO

shread(1), shreadgrace(1), shreadjpl(1)

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.