=head1 GLQGridCoord

=over 15

=item GLQGridCoord -  

Compute the latitude and longitude coordinates used in Gauss-Legendre quadrature grids.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 26

=item SUBROUTINE GLQGridCoord ( 

LATGLQ, LONGLQ, LMAX, NLAT, NLONG )

=back

=over 4

=over 10

=item REAL*8	

LATGLQ(LMAX+1), LONGLQ(2*LMAX+1)

=item INTEGER

LMAX, NLAT, NLONG

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<GLQGridCoord> will compute the latitude and longitude coordinates that are used in Gauss-Legendre quadrature grids for performing spherical harmonic transforms and reconstructions. The latitudinal nodes correspond to the zeros of the Legendre polynomial of degree LMAX+1, and the longitudinal nodes are equally spaced with an interval of 360/(2*LMAX+1) degrees.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 10

=item LATGLQ

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION (LMAX+1)

The latitude coordinates of a grid, corresponding to the indices (:,1), in DEGREES.
	
=item LONGLQ

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION (2*LMAX+1)

The longitude coordinates of a grid, corresponding to the indices (1,:), in DEGREES. The first node is 0 E.

=item LMAX

(input) INTEGER

The maximum spherical harmonic degree that will be integrated exactly by Gauss-Legendre quadrature.

=item NLAT

(output) INTEGER

The number of samples in latitude.

=item NLONG

(output) INTEGER

The number of samples in longitude.


=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

shexpandglq(1), makegridglq(1)

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.