=head1 MakeGridGLQC

=over 16

=item MakeGridGLQC -  

Create a 2D complex map from a set of complex spherical harmonic coefficients sampled on the Gauss-Legendre quadrature nodes.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 26

=item SUBROUTINE MakeGridGLQC ( 

GRIDGLQ, CILM, LMAX, PLX, ZERO, NORM, CSPHASE, LMAX_CALC )

=back

=over 4

=over 19

=item COMPLEX*16	

GRIDGLQ(LMAX+1, 2*LMAX+1), S<CILM(2, *, *)>

=item INTEGER

LMAX

=item REAL*8, OPTIONAL

PLX(LMAX+1, (LMAX+1)*(LMAX+2)/2), ZERO(LMAX+1)

=item INTEGER, OPTIONAL

NORM, CSPHASE, LMAX_CALC

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<MakeGridGLQC> will create a 2-dimensional complex map from a set of input complex spherical harmonic coefficients sampled on the Gauss-Legendre quadrature nodes. This is the inverse of the routine I<SHExpandGLQC>. The latitudinal nodes correspond to the zeros of the Legendre polynomial of degree LMAX+1, and the longitudinal nodes are equally spaced with an interval of 360/(2*LMAX+1) degrees. When evaluating the function, the maximum spherical harmonic degree that is considered is the minimum of LMAX, the size of CILM-1, or LMAX_CALC (if specified).

The employed spherical harmonic normalization and Condon-Shortley phase convention can be set by the optional arguments NORM and CSPHASE; if not set, the default is to use geodesy 4-pi normalized harmonics that exclude the Condon-Shortley phase of (-1)^m. 

The reconstruction of the spherical harmonic function can be speeded up by precomputing the Legendre functions on the Gauss-Legendre quadrature nodes in the routine I<PreCompute> with the optional parameter CNORM set to 1. However, given that this array contains on the order of LMAX**3 entries, this is only feasible for moderate values of LMAX.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 11

=item GRIDGLQ

(output) COMPLEX*16, DIMENSION(LMAX+1, 2*LMAX+1)

A 2D complex map of the function sampled on the Gauss-Legendre quadrature nodes.

=item CILM 

(input) COMPLEX*16, DIMENSION (2, *, *)

The complex spherical harmonic coefficients of the function. When evaluating the function, the maximum spherical harmonic degree considered is the minimum of LMAX, the size of CILM(:,*,*) - 1, or LMAX_CALC (if specified). The first index specifies the coefficient corresponding to the positive (1) and negative (2) order of m, respectively, with Clm = CILM(1, l+1, m+1) and Cl,-m = CILM(2, l+1, m+1).
	
=item LMAX

(input) INTEGER

The maximum spherical harmonic bandwidth of the function. This determines the sampling nodes of the output grid.

=item PLX

(input) REAL*8, OPTIONAL, DIMENSION (LMAX+1, (LMAX+1)*(LMAX+2)/2)

An array of the associated Legendre functions calculated at the Gauss-Legendre quadrature nodes. These are determined from a call to I<PreCompute> with the option CNORM=1. Either PLX or ZERO must be present, but not both.
	
=item ZERO

(input) REAL*8, OPTIONAL, DIMENSION (LMAX+1)

The nodes used in the Gauss-Legendre quadrature over latitude, calculated by a call to I<PreCompute>.  Either PLX or ZERO must be present, but not both.
	
=item NORM

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

1 (default) = Geodesy 4-pi normalized harmonics; 2 = Schmidt semi-normalized harmonics; 3 = unnormalized harmonics; 4 = orthonormal harmonics.

=item CSPHASE

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

1 (default) = do not apply the Condon-Shortley phase factor to the associated Legendre functions; -1 = append the Condon-Shortley phase factor of (-1)^m to the associated Legendre functions.

=item LMAX_CALC

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

The maximum spherical harmonic degree used in evaluating the function. This must be less than or equal to LMAX.

=back

=head1 NOTES

The normalized legendre functions are calculated using the scaling algorithm of Holmes and Featherstone (2002), which are accurate to about degree 2800. In contrast, the unnormalized functions are only accurate to about degree 15.

This routine takes into account the symmetry of the associated Legendre functions about the equator in order to reduce computational time.

=head1 SEE ALSO

shexpandglqc(1), shexpandglq(1), glqgridcoord(1), precompute(1), makegriddh(1), shexpanddh(1), makegriddhc(1), shexpanddhc(1), makegrid2d(1)

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>

=head1 REFERENCES

Holmes, S. A., and W. E. Featherstone, A unified approach to the Clenshaw
summation and the recursive computation of very high degree and
order normalised associated Legendre functions, I<J. Geodesy>, 76, 279-
299, 2002.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.