=head1 MakeGridPoint

=over 17

=item MakeGridPoint -  

Expand a set of spherical harmonic coefficients at a single point.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 32

=item REAL*8 FUNCTION MakeGridPoint ( 

CILM, LMAX, LAT, LON, NORM, CSPHASE, DEALLOC )

=back

=over 4

=over 19

=item REAL*8	

S<CILM(2, LMAX+1, LMAX+1)>, LAT, LON

=item INTEGER

LMAX

=item INTEGER, OPTIONAL

NORM, CSPHASE, DEALLOC

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<MakeGridPoint> will expand a set of spherical harmonic coefficients at a single point. The input latitude and longitude are in degrees. The employed spherical harmonic normalization and Condon-Shortley phase convention can be set by the optional arguments NORM and CSPHASE; if not set, the default is to use geodesy 4-pi normalized harmonics that exclude the Condon-Shortley phase of (-1)^m. 

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 11

=item CILM 

(input) REAL*8, DIMENSION (2, LMAX+1, LMAX+1)

The real spherical harmonic coefficients to be expanded in the space domain. The coefficients C1lm and C2lm refer to the "cosine" (Clm) and "sine" (Slm) coefficients, respectively, with Clm = CILM(1, l+1, m+1) and Slm = CILM(2, l+1, m+1). Alternatively, C1lm and C2lm correspond to the positive and negative order coefficients, respectively.
	
=item LMAX

(input) INTEGER

The maximum spherical harmonic degree of the coefficients CILM.

=item LAT

(input) REAL*8 

The latitude of the point in DEGREES.

=item LON

(input) REAL*8 

The longitude of the point in DEGREES.
	
=item NORM

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

1 (default) = Geodesy 4-pi normalized harmonics; 2 = Schmidt semi-normalized harmonics; 3 = unnormalized harmonics; 4 = orthonormal harmonics.

=item CSPHASE

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

1 (default) = do not apply the Condon-Shortley phase factor to the associated Legendre functions; -1 = append the Condon-Shortley phase factor of (-1)^m to the associated Legendre functions.

=item DEALLOC

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

0 (default) = Save variables used in the external Legendre function calls. (1) Deallocate this memory at the end of the funcion call.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

makegrid2d(1), makegriddh(1), makegridglq(1)

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.