=head1 MakeGeoidGridDH

=over 19 

=item MakeGeoidGridDH -  

Create a global map of the geoid.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 29

=item SUBROUTINE MakeGeoidGridDH ( 

GEOID, CILM, LMAX, R0POT, GM, POTREF, OMEGA, R, GRIDTYPE, ORDER, NLAT, NLONG, INTERVAL, LMAX_CALC, A, F )

=back

=over 4

=over 18

=item REAL*8	

GEOID(NLAT, NLONG), S<CILM(2, LMAX+1, LMAX+1)>, R0POT, GM, POTREF, OMEGA, R

=item INTEGER

LMAX, GRIDTYPE, ORDER, NLAT, NLONG

=item REAL*8, OPTIONAL

INTERVAL, A, F

=item INTEGER, OPTIONAL

LMAX_CALC

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<MakeGeoidGridDH> will create a global map of the geoid, accurate to either first, second, or third order, using the method described in Wieczorek (2007; equation 19-20). The algorithm expands the potential in a Taylor series on a spherical interface of radius R, and computes the height above this interface to the potential POTREF exactly from the linear, quadratic, or cubic equation at each grid point. If the optional parameters A and F are specified, the geoid height will be referenced to a flattened ellipsoid with semi-major axis A and flattening F. The pseudo-rotational potential is explicitly accounted for by specifying the angular rotation rate OMEGA of the planet. 

It should be noted that this geoid calculation is only strictly exact when the radius R lies above the maximum radius of the planet. Furthermore, the geoid is only strictly valid when it lies above the surface of the planet (it is necessary to know the density structure of the planet when calculating the potential below the surface).

The geoid can be computed on one of four different grids: (1) a Gauss-Legendre quadrature grid (see I<MakeGridGLQ>), (2) A N by N equally sampled grid (see I<MakeGridDH>), (3) an N by 2N equally spaced grid (see I<MakeGridDH>), or (4) A 2D Cartesian grid (see I<MakeGrid2D>),. 

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 10

=item GEOID

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION(NLAT, NLONG)

A global grid of the height to the potential POTREF above a sphere of radius R (or above a flattened ellipsoid if both A and F are specified). The number of latitude and longitude points depends upon GRIDTYPE: (1) LMAX+1 by 2*LMAX + 1, (2) 2*LMAX+2 by 2*LMAX+2, (3) 2*LMAX+2 by 4*LMAX+4, or (4) 180/INTERVAL + 1 by 360/INTERVAL + 1.

=item CILM 

(input) REAL*8, DIMENSION (2, LMAX+1, LMAX+1)

The real spherical harmonic coefficients (geodesy normalized) of the gravitational potential referenced to a spherical interface of radius R0POT.
	
=item LMAX

(input) INTEGER

The maximum spherical harmonic degree of the gravitational-potential coefficients. For GRIDTYPEs 1, 2 and 3, this determines the number of latitudinal and longitudinal samples.
	
=item R0POT

(input) REAL*8

The reference radius of the spherical harmonic coefficients.

=item GM

(input) REAL*8

The product of the gravitational constant and mass of the planet.

=item POTREF

(input) REAL*8

The value of the potential on the chosen geoid, in SI units.

=item OMEGA

(input) REAL*8

The angular rotation rate of the planet.

=item R

(input) REAL*8

The radius of the reference sphere that the Taylor expansion of the potential is performed on. If A and F are not specified, the geoid height will be referenced to this spherical interface.

=item GRIDTYPE

(input) INTEGER

The output grid is (1) a Gauss-Legendre quadrature grid whose grid nodes are determined by LMAX, (2) an equally sampled N by N grid used with the Driscoll and Healy (1994) sampling theorem, (3) ar a similar N by 2N grid that is oversampled in longitude, or (4) a 2D Cartesian grid with latitudinal and longitudinal spacing given by INTERVAL.

=item ORDER

(input) INTEGER

The order of the Taylor series expansion of the potential about the reference radius R. This can be either 1, 2, or 3.
		
=item NLAT

(output) INTEGER

The number of latitudinal samples.

=item NLONG

(output) INTEGER

The number of longitudinal samples.
	
=item INTERVAL

(input) REAL*8, OPTIONAL

The latitudinal and longitudinal spacing of the output grid when GRIDTYPE is 4.

=item LMAX_CALC

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

The maximum degree used in evaluating the spherical harmonic coefficients. This must be less than or equal to LMAX.

=item A

(input) REAL*8, OPTIONAL

The semi-major axis of the flattened ellipsoid that the output grid GEOID is referenced to. The optional parameter F must also be specified.

=item F

(input) REAL*8, OPTIONAL

The flattening (R_equator - R_pole)/R_equator of the reference ellipsoid. The optional parameter A (i.e., R_equator) must be specified.

=back

=head1 NOTES

This routine uses geodesy 4-pi normalized spherical harmonics that exclude the Condon-Shortley phase. This can not be modified.

=head1 SEE ALSO

makegrid2d(1), makegridglq(1), makegriddh(1)

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>

=head1 REFERENCES

Driscoll, J.R. and D.M. Healy, Computing Fourier transforms and convolutions on the 2-sphere, I<Adv. Appl. Math.>, 15, 202-250, 1994.

Wieczorek, M. A. Gravity and topography of the terrestrial planets, I<Treatise on Geophysics>, 10, 165-206, 2007.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.