=head1 PLegendreA

=over 13

=item PLegendreA -  

Compute all the (unnormalized) associated Legendre functions.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 24

=item SUBROUTINE PLegendreA ( 

P, LMAX, Z, CSPHASE )

=back

=over 4

=over 20

=item REAL*8	

P((LMAX+1)*(LMAX+2)/2), Z

=item INTEGER

LMAX

=item INTEGER, OPTIONAL

CSPHASE

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<PLegendreA> will calculate all of the (unnormalized) associated Legendre functions up to degree LMAX for a given argument. These are calculated using a standard three-term recursion formula and hence will overflow for moderate values of L and M. The index of the array corresponding to a given degree L and angular order M can be computed by a call to I<PlmIndex>. The integral of the associated Legendre functions over the interval [-1, 1] is 2 * (l+m)! / (l-m)! / (2l+1). The default is to exclude the Condon-Shortley phase, but this can be modified by setting the optional argument CSPHASE to -1.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 10

=item P

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION ((LMAX+1)*(LMAX+2)/2)

An array of (unnormalized) associated Legendre functions up to degree LMAX. The index corresponds to L*(L+1)/2 + M + 1, which can be calculated by a call to I<PlmIndex>.
	
=item LMAX

(input) INTEGER

The maximum degree of the associated Legendre functions to be computed.

=item Z

(input) REAL*8

The argument of the associated Legendre functions.

=item CSPHASE

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

if 1 (default), the Condon-Shortley phase will be excluded. If -1, the Condon-Shortley phase of (-1)^m will be appended to the associated Legendre functions.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

plbar(1), plbar_d1(1), plmbar(1), plmbar_d1(1), plon(1), plon_d1(1), plmon(1), plmon_d1(1), plschmidt(1), plschmidt_d1(1), plmschmidt(1), plmschmidt_d1(1), plegendre(1), plegendre_d1(1), plegendrea_d1(1), plmindex(1)

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.