=head1 SHMTVarOpt

=over 13

=item SHMTVarOpt -  

Calculate the minimum variance and corresponding optimal weights of a localized multitaper spectral estimate.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 24

=item SUBROUTINE SHMTVarOpt ( 

L, TAPERS, TAPER_ORDER, LWIN, KMAX, SFF, VAR_OPT, VAR_UNIT, WEIGHT_OPT, UNWEIGHTED_COVAR, NOCROSS )

=back

=over 4

=over 19

=item REAL*8	

TAPERS(LWIN+1, KMAX), SFF(L+WIN+1), VAR_OPT(KMAX), VAR_UNIT(KMAX)

=item INTEGER

L, TAPER_ORDER(KMAX), LWIN, KMAX

=item REAL*8, OPTIONAL

WEIGHT_OPT(KMAX, KMAX), S<UNWEIGHTED_COVAR(KMAX, KMAX)>

=item INTEGER, OPTIONAL

NOCROSS

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<SHMTVarOpt> will determine the minimum variance that can be achieved by a weighted multitaper spectral analysis, as is described by Wieczorek and Simons (2006, submitted manuscript). The minimum variance is output as a function of the number of tapers utilized, from 1 to a maximum of KMAX, and the corresponding variance using equal weights is output for comparison. The windowing functions are assumed to be solutions to the spherical-cap concentration problem, as determined by a call to I<SHReturnTapers> or I<SHReturnTapersM>. The minimum variance and weights are dependent upon the form of the global unwindowed power spectrum, SFF.

If the optional argument WEIGHT_OPT is specified, then the optimal weights will be returned as a function of the number of tapers employed, from 1 KMAX. If UNWEIGHTED_COVAR is specified, then the unweighted covariance matrix of the KMAX tapers (i.e., Fij) will be output. If the optional argument NOCROSS is set to 1, then only the diagnonal terms of Fij will be computed.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 18

=item L

(input) INTEGER

The angular degree to determine the minimum variance and optimal weights.

=item TAPERS

(input) REAL*8, DIMENSION (LWIN+1, KMAX)

A matrix of localization functions obtained from I<SHReturnTapers> or I<SHReturnTapersM>.

=item TAPER_ORDER

(input) INTEGER, DIMENSION (K)

The angular order of the windowing coefficients in TAPERS. If this matrix was created using I<SHReturnTapersM>, then this array must be composed of zeros.

=item LWIN

(input) INTEGER

The spherical harmonic bandwidth of the localizing windows.


=item KMAX

(input) INTEGER

The maximum number of tapers to be used when calculating the minimum variance and optimal weights. All values from 1 to KMAX will be returned.

=item SFF

(input) REAL*8, DIMENSION (L+LWIN+1)

The global unwindowed power spectrum of the function to be localized.

=item VAR_OPT

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION (KMAX)

The minimum variance of the multitaper spectral estimate for degree L using 1 through KMAX tapers.

=item VAR_UNIT

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION (KMAX)

The variance of the multitaper spectral estimate using equal weights for degree L using 1 through KMAX tapers.

=item WEIGHT_OPT

(output) REAL*8, OPTIONAL, DIMENSION (KMAX, KMAX)

The optimal weights (in columns) that minimize the multitaper spectral estimate's variance using 1 through KMAX tapers.

=item UNWEIGHTED_COVAR

(output) REAL*8, OPTIONAL, DIMENSION (KMAX, KMAX)

The unweighted covariance matrix of the KMAX tapers (i.e., Fij in Wieczorek and Simons 2007).

=item NOCROSS

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

If 1, only the diagonal terms of the covariance matrix Fij will be computed. If 0, all terms will be computed.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

shreturntapers(1), shreturntapersm(1), shmtvaropt0(1)

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>

=head1 REFERENCES

Wieczorek, M. A. and F. J. Simons, Minimum variance multitaper spectral estimation on the sphere, I<J. Fourier Anal. Appl.>, submitted 2006.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.