=head1 SHMTVarOpt0

=over 14

=item SHMTVarOpt0 -  

Calculate the minimum variance and corresponding optimal weights of a localized multitaper spectral estimate using zonal tapers.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 25

=item SUBROUTINE SHMTVarOpt0 ( 

L, TAPERS, LWIN, KMAX, SFF, VAR_OPT, VAR_UNIT, WEIGHT_OPT, UNWEIGHTED_COVAR NOCROSS )

=back

=over 4

=over 19

=item REAL*8	

TAPERS(LWIN+1, KMAX), SFF(L+WIN+1), VAR_OPT(KMAX), VAR_UNIT(KMAX)

=item INTEGER

L, LWIN, KMAX

=item REAL*8, OPTIONAL

WEIGHT_OPT(KMAX, KMAX), S<UNWEIGHTED_COVAR(KMAX, KMAX)>

=item INTEGER, OPTIONAL

NOCROSS

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<SHMTVarOpt0> will determine the minimum variance that can be achieved by a weighted multitaper spectral analysis using zonal tapers, as is described by Wieczorek and Simons (2006, submitted manuscript). The minimum variance is output as a function of the number of tapers utilized, from 1 to a maximum of KMAX, and the corresponding variance using equal weights is output for comparison. The windowing functions are assumed to be solutions to the spherical-cap concentration problem, as determined by a call to I<SHReturnTapersM>. The minimum variance and weights are dependent upon the form of the global unwindowed power spectrum, SFF.

If the optional argument WEIGHT_OPT is specified, then the optimal weights will be returned as a function of the number of tapers employed, from 1 KMAX. If UNWEIGHTED_COVAR is specified, then the unweighted covariance matrix of the KMAX tapers (i.e., F_ij) will be output. If the optional argument NOCROSS is set to 1, then only the diagnonal terms of Fij will be computed.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 18

=item L

(input) INTEGER

The angular degree to determine the minimum variance and optimal weights.

=item TAPERS

(input) REAL*8, DIMENSION (LWIN+1, KMAX)

A matrix of localization functions obtained from I<SHReturnTapersM>.

=item LWIN

(input) INTEGER

The spherical harmonic bandwidth of the localizing windows.

=item KMAX

(input) INTEGER

The maximum number of tapers to be used when calculating the minimum variance and optimal weights. All values from 1 to KMAX will be returned.

=item SFF

(input) REAL*8, DIMENSION (L+LWIN+1)

The global unwindowed power spectrum of the function to be localized.

=item VAR_OPT

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION (KMAX)

The minimum variance of the multitaper spectral estimate for degree L using 1 through KMAX tapers.

=item VAR_UNIT

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION (KMAX)

The variance of the multitaper spectral estimate using equal weights for degree L using 1 through KMAX tapers.

=item WEIGHT_OPT

(output) REAL*8, OPTIONAL, DIMENSION (KMAX, KMAX)

The optimal weights (in columns) that minimize the multitaper spectral estimate's variance using 1 through KMAX tapers.

=item UNWEIGHTED_COVAR

(output) REAL*8, OPTIONAL, DIMENSION (KMAX, KMAX)

The unweighted covariance matrix of the KMAX tapers (i.e., Fij in Wieczorek and Simons 2007).

=item NOCROSS

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

If 1, only the diagonal terms of the covariance matrix Fij will be computed. If 0, all terms will be computed.


=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

shreturntapers(1), shreturntapersm(1), shmtvaropt(1)

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>

=head1 REFERENCES

Wieczorek, M. A. and F. J. Simons, Minimum variance multitaper spectral estimation on the sphere, I<J. Fourier Anal. Appl.>, submitted 2006.


=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.