.TH "makecirclecoord" "1" "2015\-04\-23" "Fortran 95" "SHTOOLS 3.0"
.SH MakeCircleCoord
.PP
Compute the coordinates of a circle placed at a given latitude and
longitude.
.SH Usage
.PP
call MakeCircleCoord (\f[C]coord\f[], \f[C]lat\f[], \f[C]lon\f[],
\f[C]theta0\f[], \f[C]cinterval\f[], \f[C]cnum\f[])
.SH Parameters
.TP
.B \f[C]coord\f[] : output, real*8, dimension(360/\f[C]cinterval\f[], 2)
The latitude (:,1) and longitude (:,2) coordinates of the circle in
degrees.
If not specified, \f[C]cintervaL\f[] is assumed to 1.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]lat\f[] : input, real*8
The latitude of the center of the circle in degrees.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]lon\f[] : input, real*8
The longitude of the center of the circle in degrees.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]theta0\f[] : input, real*8
The angular radius of the circle in degrees.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]cinterval\f[] : optional, input, real*8, default = 1
Angular spacing in degrees of the output latitude and longitude points.
If not present, the default is 1.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]cnum\f[] : optional, output, integer
Number of elements in the output arrays.
.RS
.RE
.SH Description
.PP
\f[C]MakeCircleCoord\f[] will calculate the latitude and longitude
coordinates of a circle of angular radius \f[C]theta0\f[] placed on a
sphere at position (\f[C]lat\f[], \f[C]lon\f[]).
This is useful for plotting circles on geographic maps.
The first index in the output vectors corresponds to the point directly
north of the cirlce origin, and subsequent points are arranged in a
clockwise manner.
Input and output units are in degrees.
.SH See also
.PP
makeellipsecoord
