.TH "pyeigvalvecsym" "1" "2015\-04\-28" "Python" "SHTOOLS 3.1"
.SH EigValVecSym
.PP
Compute the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of a real symmetric matrix.
.SH Usage
.PP
\f[C]eval\f[], \f[C]evec\f[] = pyshtools.EigValVecSym (\f[C]ain\f[],
[\f[C]n\f[], \f[C]ul\f[], \f[C]k\f[]])
.SH Returns
.TP
.B \f[C]eval\f[] : float, dimension (\f[C]k\f[])
The eigenvalues of \f[C]ain\f[], sorted from largest to smallest.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]evec\f[] : float, dimension (\f[C]n\f[], \f[C]k\f[])
The eigenvectors of \f[C]ain\f[], sorted from largest to smallest
eigenvalues.
The sign of the first element of each eigenvector is chosen to be
positive.
.RS
.RE
.SH Parameters
.TP
.B \f[C]ain\f[] : float, dimension (\f[C]nin\f[], \f[C]nin\f[])
The input real symmetric matrix.
By default, only the upper portion of the matrix is used.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]n\f[] : optional, integer, default = \f[C]nin\f[]
The rank of the matrix \f[C]ain\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]ul\f[] : optional, character, default = \f[C]U\f[]
If \f[C]U\f[] then the upper portion of the matrix \f[C]ain\f[] will be
used (default).
If \f[C]L\f[] then the lower portion of the matrix \f[C]ain\f[] will be
used.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]k\f[] : optional, optional, integer, default = \f[C]nin\f[]
The number of largest eigenvalues and corresponding eigenvectors to be
output.
.RS
.RE
.SH Description
.PP
\f[C]EigValVecSym\f[] will calculate the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of
a real symmetric matrix.
By default, only the upper portion of the matrix is used, but this can
be changed by the optional argument \f[C]ul\f[].
The eigenvalues and eigenvectors are sorted from largest to smallest
eigenvalues.
If the optional parameter \f[C]k\f[] is specified, then only the
\f[C]k\f[] largest eigenvalues and their corresponding eigenvectors will
be output.
.PP
The matrix \f[C]ain\f[] is first factorized into a tridiagonal matrix
using the LAPACK routine \f[C]DSYTRD\f[], and then the eigenvalues are
calculated by calls to \f[C]DSTEGR\f[] and \f[C]DORMTR\f[].
.SH See also
.PP
eigvalsym, eigvalvecsymtri
