.TH "pymakegriddh" "1" "2015\-03\-17" "SHTOOLS 3.0" "SHTOOLS 3.0"
.SH MakeGridDH
.PP
Create a 2D map from a set of spherical harmonic coefficients using the
Driscoll and Healy (1994) sampling theorem.
.SH Usage
.PP
\f[I]griddh\f[] =
pyshtools.MakeGridDH(\f[I]cilm\f[],[\f[I]lmax\f[],\f[I]norm\f[],\f[I]sampling\f[],\f[I]csphase\f[],\f[I]lmax_calc\f[]])
.SH Returns
.TP
.B \f[I]griddh\f[] : float, dimension(2*(\f[I]lmax\f[]+1), \f[I]sampling\f[]*2*(\f[I]lmax\f[]+1))
A 2D equally sampled (default) or equally spaced map in degrees (for
\f[C]sampling=2\f[]) of the spherical harmonic coefficients cilm that
conforms to the sampling theorem of Driscoll and Healy (1994).
The first latitudinal band corresponds to 90 N, the latitudinal band for
90 S is not included, and the latitudinal sampling interval is 180/N
degrees.
The first longitudinal band is 0 E, the longitudinal band for 360 E is
not included, and the longitudinal sampling interval is 360/N for an
equally sampled and 180/N for an equally spaced grid, respectively.
.RS
.RE
.SH Parameters
.TP
.B \f[I]cilm\f[] : float, dimension(2,\f[I]lmaxin\f[]+1,\f[I]lmaxin\f[]+1)
The real spherical harmonic coefficients of the function.
The coefficients \f[C]cilm[0,lm]\f[] and \f[C]cilm[1,l,m]\f[] refer to
the "cosine" and "sine" coefficients, respectively.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[I]lmax\f[] : int, optional, default = \f[I]lmaxin\f[]
The maximum spherical harmonic degree of the function, which determines
the sampling of the output grid.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[I]norm\f[] : int, optional, default = 1
1 = Geodesy 4\-pi normalized harmonics; 2 = Schmidt semi\-normalized
harmonics; 3 = unnormalized harmonics; 4 = orthonormal harmonics.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[I]sampling\f[] : int, optional, default = 1
If 1, the output grid contains the same number of samples in latitude as
in longitude.
If 2, the grid is equally spaced in degrees, having twice as many
samples in longitude as latitude.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[I]csphase\f[] : int, optional, default = 1
1 = do not apply the Condon\-Shortley phase factor to the associated
Legendre functions; \-1 = append the Condon\-Shortley phase factor of
(\-1)^m to the associated Legendre functions.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[I]lmax_calc\f[] : int, optional, default = \f[I]lmax\f[]
The maximum spherical harmonic degree used in evaluating the function.
This must be less than or equal to \f[C]lmax\f[], and does not affect
the number of samples of the output grid.
.RS
.RE
.SH Description
.PP
\f[C]MakeGridDH\f[] will create a 2\-dimensional map equally sampled or
equally spaced in latitude and longitude from a set of input spherical
harmonic coefficients.
This grid conforms with the sampling theorem of Driscoll and Healy
(1994) and this routine is the inverse of SHExpandDH.
The function is evaluated at each longitudinal band by inverse Fourier
transforming the sin and cos terms for each degree l, and then summing
over all degrees.
When evaluating the function, the maximum spherical harmonic degree that
is considered is the minimum of lmaxin, lmax, and lmax_calc (if
specified).
.PP
The default is to use an input grid that is equally sampled (N by N),
but this can be changed to use an equally spaced grid (N by 2N) by
providing \f[C]sampling=2\f[].
The first latitudinal band of the grid corresponds to 90 N, the
latitudinal band for 90 S is not calculated, and the latitudinal
sampling interval is 180/N degrees.
The first longitudinal band is 0 E, the longitudinal band for 360 E is
not calculated, and the longitudinal sampling interval is 360/N for
equally sampled and 180/N for equally spaced grids, respectively.
.PP
The employed spherical harmonic normalization and Condon\-Shortley phase
convention can be set by the optional arguments \f[I]norm\f[] and
\f[I]csphase\f[]; if not set, the default is to use geodesy 4\-pi
normalized harmonics that exclude the Condon\-Shortley phase of (\-1)^m.
.PP
The normalized legendre functions are calculated using the scaling
algorithm of Holmes and Featherstone (2002), which are accurate to about
degree 2800.
This routine takes into account the symmetry of the associated Legendre
functions about the equator in order to reduce computational time.
.SH See also
.PP
\f[C]SHExpandDH\f[], \f[C]MakeGridDHC\f[], \f[C]SHExpandDHC\f[],
\f[C]MakeGridGLQ\f[], \f[C]SHExpandGLQ\f[], \f[C]MakeGridGLQC\f[],
\f[C]SHExpandGLQC\f[], \f[C]MakeGrid2D\f[]
.SH References
.PP
Driscoll, J.R.
and D.M.
Healy, Computing Fourier transforms and convolutions on the 2\-sphere,
Adv.
Appl.
Math., 15, 202\-250, 1994.
.PP
Holmes, S.
A., and W.
E.
Featherstone, A unified approach to the Clenshaw summation and the
recursive computation of very high degree and order normalised
associated Legendre functions, J.
Geodesy, 76, 279\- 299, 2002.
