.TH "shread2" "1" "2015\-04\-02" "SHTOOLS 3.0" "SHTOOLS 3.0"
.SH SHRead2
.PP
Read spherical harmonic coefficients from a CHAMP or GRACE\-like
ascii\-formatted file.
.SH Usage
.PP
call subroutine SHRead2 (\f[C]filename\f[], \f[C]cilm\f[],
\f[C]lmax\f[], \f[C]gm\f[], \f[C]r0_pot\f[], \f[C]error\f[],
\f[C]dot\f[], \f[C]doystart\f[], \f[C]doyend\f[], \f[C]epoch\f[])
.SH Parameters
.TP
.B \f[C]filename\f[] : input, character(*)
The ascii\-formatted filename containing the spherical harmonic
coefficients.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]cilm\f[] : output, real*8, dimension (2, \f[C]lmax\f[]+1, \f[C]lmax\f[]+1)
The spherical harmonic coefficients contained in \f[C]filename\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]lmax\f[] : output, integer
The maximum spherical harmonic degree of \f[C]cilm\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]gm\f[] : output, real*8
The mass\-gravitational constant.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]r0_pot\f[] : output, real*8
The reference radius of the potential coefficients.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]error\f[] : output, real*8, optional, dimension (2, \f[C]lmax\f[]+1, \f[C]lmax\f[]+1)
The errors corresponding to the spherical harmonic coefficients
\f[C]cilm\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]dot\f[] : output, real*8, optional, dimension (2, :, :)
The time derivatives of the spherical harmonic coefficients.
The dimension of this array can be smaller than \f[C]lmax+1\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]doystart\f[] : output, real*8, optional
The starting time of the solution.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]doyend\f[] : output, real*8, optional
The ending time of the solution
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]epoch\f[] : output, real*8, optional
The epoch time for the time derivates.
.RS
.RE
.SH Description
.PP
\f[C]SHRead2\f[] will read spherical harmonic coefficients from a CHAMP
or GRACE\-like ascii\-formatted file into an array \f[C]cilm\f[].
The errors and time derivatives associated with the coefficients will be
read if the optional arrays \f[C]error\f[] and \f[C]dot\f[] are
specified, respectively.
The staring and ending date of the solution are specified by the
optional parameters \f[C]doystart\f[] and \f[C]doyend\f[], and the epoch
of the time derivates is specified by the optional parameter
\f[C]epoch\f[].
The maximum spherical harmonic degree is read from the file, and the
file does not need to be ordered by angular degree or order.
.PP
This routine does not read and output all parameters in the file.
Records that are read (and at least partially output) include:
\f[C]EARTH\f[], \f[C]GGM\f[], \f[C]SHM\f[], \f[C]GRCOF2\f[],
\f[C]GRDOTA\f[], \f[C]CALSDV\f[], \f[C]gfc\f[], \f[C]gfct\f[], and
\f[C]dot\f[].
Comments specified by the record \f[C]CMMNT\f[] will be print out to the
screen, as will the record names that are not currently implemented.
.PP
Each line of the file starts with a character string describing what
follows.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]EARTH\f[] or \f[C]GGM\f[]: \f[C]GM\f[], \f[C]R0_POT\f[]
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]SHM\f[]: Maximum spherical harmonic degree of file.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]GRCOF2\f[], \f[C]CALSDV\f[], or \f[C]gfc\f[]: spherical harmonic
coefficients, formatted as (\f[C]l\f[], \f[C]m\f[], \f[C]clm\f[],
\f[C]slm\f[]) or (\f[C]l\f[], \f[C]m\f[], \f[C]clm\f[], \f[C]slm\f[],
\f[C]clm_error\f[], \f[C]slm_error\f[]).
.SH See also
.PP
shread, shreadjpl
