.TH "shrtoc" "1" "2015\-04\-05" "SHTOOLS 3.0" "SHTOOLS 3.0"
.SH SHrtoc
.PP
Convert real spherical harmonics to complex form.
.SH Usage
.PP
call SHrtoc (\f[C]rcilm\f[], \f[C]ccilm\f[], \f[C]degmax\f[],
\f[C]convention\f[], \f[C]switchcs\f[])
.SH Parameters
.TP
.B \f[C]rcilm\f[] : input, real*8, dimension (2, \f[C]lmaxin\f[]+1, \f[C]lmaxin\f[]+1)
The input real spherical harmonic coefficients.
\f[C]rcilm(1,:,:)\f[] and \f[C]rcilm(2,:,:)\f[] correspond to the cosine
and sine terms, respectively.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]ccilm\f[] : output, real*8, dimension (2, \f[C]lmaxout\f[]+1, \f[C]lmaxout\f[]+1)
The output complex spherical harmonic coefficients.
\f[C]ccilm(1,:,:)\f[] and \f[C]ccilm(2,:,:)\f[] correspond to the real
and complex part of the coefficients, respectively.
Only the positive angular orders are output; the negative orders can be
calculated from the relation \f[C]C_{l\-m}=(\-1)^m\ C_{lm}^*\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]degmax\f[] : input, integer, optional, default = min(\f[C]lmaxin\f[], \f[C]lmaxout\f[])
The maximum degree of the output coefficients.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]convention\f[] : input, integer, optional, default = 1
If 1 (default), the input and output coefficients will have the same
normalization.
If 2, real geodesy 4\-pi coefficients will be converted to complex
orthonormal form.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]swtichcs\f[] : input, integer, optional, default = 0
If 0 (default), the input and output coefficients will possess the same
Condon\-Shortley phase convention.
If 1, the input coefficients will first be multiplied by (\-1)^m.
.RS
.RE
.SH Description
.PP
\f[C]SHrtoc\f[] will convert real spherical harmonics to complex form.
By default, the dimension of the output array is the minimum of
\f[C]rcilm\f[] and \f[C]ccilm\f[], though this can be changed by
specifying the optional parameter \f[C]degmax\f[].
The normalization of the input and output coefficients are by default
the same, but if the optional argument \f[C]convention\f[] is set to 2,
this routine will convert from geodesy 4\-pi normalized coefficients to
orthonormalized coefficients.
The Condon\-Shortley phase convention between the input an output
coefficients can be modified by the optional argument \f[C]switchs\f[].
.SH See also
.PP
shctor
