=head1 MakeEllipseCoord

=over 20

=item MakeEllipseCoord -  

Compute coordinates of an ellipse placed at a given latitude and longitude.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 30

=item SUBROUTINE MakeEllipseCoord ( 

COORD, LAT, LON, DEC, A_THETA, B_THETA, CINTERVAL, CNUM ) 

=back

=over 4

=over 18

=item REAL*8	

COORD(360/CINTERVAL, 2), LAT, LON, DEC, A_THETA, B_THETA

=item REAL*8, OPTIONAL

CINTERVAL

=item INTEGER, OPTIONAL

CNUM

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<MakeEllipseCoord> will calculate the (lat, long) coordinates of an ellipse placed on a sphere at position (LAT, LON). The semi-major and semi-minor axes, expressed in angular radii in degrees, are given by A_THETA and B_THETA, respectively. The semimajor axis of the ellipse is initially directed due north, and it is then rotated clockwise by the angle DEC. This is useful for plotting ellipses on geographic maps. The first index in the output vectors corresponds to the northern rotated semimajor axis, and subsequent points are arranged in a clockwise manner. Input and output units are in DEGREES.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 17

=item COORD

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION(360/CINTERVAL, 2)

The latitude (:,1) and longitude (:,2) coordinates of the ellipse in DEGREES. If not specified, CINTERVAL is assumed to 1.
	
=item LAT

(input) REAL*8

The latitude of the center of the ellipse in DEGREES.

=item LON

(input) REAL*8

The longitude of the center of the ellipse in DEGREES.

=item DEC

(input) REAL*8

Rotation angle of the semi-major axis of the ellipse in DEGREES with respect to local north.

=item A_THETA

(input) REAL*8

The angular radius of the semi-major axis of the ellipse in DEGREES.

=item B_THETA

(input) REAL*8

The angular radius of the semi-minor axis of the ellipse in DEGREES.

=item CINTERVAL

(input) REAL*8, OPTIONAL

Angular spacing in DEGREES of the output latitude and longitude points. If not present, the default is 1.

=item CNUM

(output) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

Number of elements in the output arrays.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

makecirclecoord(1)

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.