=head1 PlanetsConstants

=over 19

=item PlanetsConstants -  

Module containing planetary constants.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 18

=item USE PlanetsConstants

=back


=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<PlanetsConstants> defines several constants that are useful when working with gravity and topography data of the Earth, Mars, Venus, and Moon. All units are SI. Confer with the source file for exact values and references.

=head1 CONSTANTS

=head2 Fundamental Constants

=over 18

=item Grav_constant 

Gravitational Constant.

=item pi_constant 

PI.

=item mu0_constant 

Magnetic constant.

=back

=head2 The Moon

=over 18

=item	R_Moon

Radius of the Moon.

=item	GM_Moon

Gravitational constant times the mass of the Moon.

=item Mass_Moon

Mass of the Moon.

=item rho_bar_Moon

Average density of the Moon.

=item a_Moon

Semi-major axis of the lunar orbit.

=item g0_Moon

Gravitational acceleration at R_Moon, not including rotation.

=item R0_pot_Moon

Reference radius of the gravitational-potential model.

=item Omega_Moon

Angular rotation rate of the Moon.

=item C_MOI_Moon

Polar moment of inertia, using R=1738 km.

=item I_MOI_Moon

Average moment of inertia, using R=1738 km.

=item Gamma_MOI_Moon

Gamma = (B-A)/C.

=item Beta_MOI_Moon

Beta = (C-A)/B.

=back

=head2 Mars

=over 18

=item R_Mars

Average radius of Mars

=item GM_Mars 

Gravitational constant times the mass of the Mars.

=item Mass_Mars

Mass of Mars.

=item rho_bar_Mars

Average density of Mars

=item g0_Mars

Gravitational acceleration at R_Mars, not including rotation.

=item R0_pot_Mars

Reference radius of the gravitational-potential model.

=item Omega_Mars

Angular rotation rate of Mars.

=item f_Mars

Topographic flattening of Mars.

=item a_Mars

Mean equatorial radius of Mars.

=back

=head2 Venus

=over 18

=item R_Venus

Average radius of Venus.

=item R0_pot_Venus 

Reference radius of the gravitational-potential model.

=item GM_Venus

Gravitational constant times the mass of the Venus.

=item Mass_Venus

Mass of Venus.

=item Omega_Venus

Angular rotation rate of Venus.

=item rho_bar_Venus

Average density of Venus.

=item g0_Venus

Gravitational acceleration at R_Mars, not including rotation.

=back

=head2 Earth

=over 18

=item GM_Earth 

Gravitational constant times the mass of the Earth.

=item R0_pot_Earth

Reference radius of the gravitational-potential model.

=item Mass_Earth

The mass of the Earth.

=item WGS84_a

The semi-major axis of the WGS84 ellipsoid.

=item WGS84_b

The semi-minor axis of the WGS84 ellipsoid.

=item WGS84_r3

The radius of a sphere of Earth's volume.

=item WGS84_f

The flattening of the WGS84 ellipsoid.

=item WGS84_gm

The adopted GM of the WGS84 model, which includes the atmosphere.

=item WGS84_gma

The GM of the atmosphere adopted by the WGS84 model.

=item WGS84_omega

The adopted angular rotation rate of the Earth of the WGS84 model.

= item WGS84_U0

The theoretical normal potential associated with the WGS84 model.

=back

=head2 Mercury

=over 18

=item R_Mercury

Average radius of Mercury.

=item GM_Mercury

Gravitational constant times the mass of the Mercury.

=item Mass_Mercury

Mass of Mercury.

=item R0_Pot_Mercury

Reference radius used for the spherical harmonic gravity solutions.

=item Omega_Mercury_orbit

Angular rotation rate of Mercury about the Sun.

=item Omega_Mercury_spin

Angular rotation rate of Mercury.

=item rho_bar_Mercury

Average density of Mercury.

=item g0_Mercury

Gravitational acceleration at R_Mercury, not including rotation.

=back


=head1 SEE ALSO

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.