=head1 PlmSchmidt

=over 13

=item PlmSchmidt -  

Compute all the Schmidt semi-normalized associated Legendre functions.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 24

=item SUBROUTINE PlmSchmidt ( 

P, LMAX, Z, CSPHASE, CNORM )

=back

=over 4

=over 20

=item REAL*8	

P((LMAX+1)*(LMAX+2)/2), Z

=item INTEGER

LMAX

=item INTEGER, OPTIONAL

CSPHASE, CNORM

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<PlmSchmidt> will calculate all of the Schmidt semi-normalized associated Legendre functions up to degree LMAX for a given argument. These are calculated using a standard three-term recursion formula, and in order to prevent overflows, the scaling approach of Holmes and Featherstone (2002) is utilized. These functions are accurate to about degree 2800. The index of the array corresponding to a given degree L and angular order M can be computed by a call to I<PlmIndex>. 

The integral of the squared Legendre functions over the interval [-1, 1] is 2 * (2 - delta(0,m))/(2L+1), where delta is the Kronecker delta function. If the optional parameter CNORM is set equal to 1, the complex normalization will be used where the integral of the squared Legendre functions over the interval [-1, 1] is 2/(2L+1). The default is to exclude the Condon-Shortley phase, but this can be modified by setting the optional argument CSPHASE to -1.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 10

=item P

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION ((LMAX+1)*(LMAX+2)/2)

An array of Schmidt-normalized associated Legendre functions up to degree LMAX. The index corresponds to L*(L+1)/2 + M + 1, which can be calculated by a call to I<PlmIndex>.
	
=item LMAX

(input) INTEGER

The maximum degree of the associated Legendre functions to be computed. If LMAX is -1, allocated memory will be deallocated (see notes below).

=item Z

(input) REAL*8

The argument of the associated Legendre functions.

=item CSPHASE

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

If 1 (default), the Condon-Shortley phase will be excluded. If -1, the Condon-Shortley phase of (-1)^m will be appended to the associated Legendre functions.

=item CNORM

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

If 1, the complex normalization of the associated Legendre functions will be used. The default is to use the real normalization.

=back

=head1 NOTES

This routine saves the three-term recursion factors and square roots of the integers the first time being called. If subsequent calls possess the same value of LMAX, these will not be recomputed. If you wish to deallocate this memory, which is an array of length (LMAX+1)*(LMAX+2), recall this routine with LMAX=-1.

=head1 REFERENCES

Holmes, S. A., and W. E. Featherstone, A unified approach to the Clenshaw
summation and the recursive computation of very high degree and
order normalised associated Legendre functions, I<J. Geodesy>, 76, 279-
299, 2002.

=head1 SEE ALSO

plbar(1), plbar_d1(1), plmbar(1), plmbar_d1(1), plon(1), plon_d1(1), plmon(1), plmon_d1(1), plschmidt(1), plschmidt_d1(1), plmschmidt_d1(1), plegendre(1), plegendre_d1(1), plegendrea(1), plegendrea_d1(1), plmindex(1)

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.