=head1 PreGLQ

=over 9

=item PreGLQ -  

Calculate the weights and nodes used in integrating a function by Gauss-Legendre quadrature.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 20

=item SUBROUTINE PreGLQ ( 

LOWER, UPPER, N, ZERO, W )

=back

=over 4

=over 11

=item REAL*8	

LOWER, UPPER, ZERO(N), W(N)

=item INTEGER

N

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<PreGLQ> will calculate the weights and zeros used to integrate a function using Gauss-Legendre quadrature. For N quadrature points, the integration will be exact if the function is a polynomial of degree 2N-1, or less. The quadrature nodes correspond to the zeros of the Legendre polynomial of degree N. The number of quadrature points required to integrate a polynomial of degree L can be determined by a call to I<NGLQ>.

To integrate a function between the bounds LOWER and UPPER it is only necessary to calculate the sum of the function evaluated at the nodes ZERO multiplied by the weights.


=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 13

=item LOWER

(input) REAL*8

The lower bound of the integration.

=item UPPER

(input) REAL*8

The upper bound of the integration.

=item N

(input) INTEGER

The number of integration points to use. This will integrate exactly a polynomial of degree 2*N-1.

=item ZERO

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION (N)

The zeros used in the Gauss-Legendre quadrature.

=item W

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION (N)

The weights used in the Gauss-Legendre quadrature.


=back

=head1 NOTES

This is a slightly modified version of the algorithm that was published in NUMERICAL RECIPES.

=head1 SEE ALSO

nglq(1), nglqsh(1), nglqshn(1)

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>

=head1 REFERENCES

Press, W.H., S.A. Teukolsky, W.T. Vetterling, and B.P. Flannery, Numerical Recipes in FORTRAN: The Art of Scientific Computing, 2nd ed., Cambridge Univ. Press, Cambridge, UK, 1992.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.