=head1 SHExpandGLQ

=over 14

=item SHExpandGLQ -  

Expand a 2D grid sampled on the Gauss-Legendre quadrature nodes into spherical harmonics.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 25

=item SUBROUTINE SHExpandGLQ ( 

CILM, LMAX, GRIDGLQ, W, PLX, ZERO, NORM, CSPHASE, LMAX_CALC )

=back

=over 4

=over 19

=item REAL*8	

CILM(2, LMAX+1, LMAX+1) I<or> S<CILM(2, LMAX_CALC+1, LMAX_CALC+1)>, S<GRIDGLQ(LMAX+1, 2*LMAX+1)>, W(LMAX+1)

=item INTEGER

LMAX

=item REAL*8, OPTIONAL

PLX(LMAX+1, (LMAX+1)*(LMAX+2)/2), ZERO(LMAX+1)

=item INTEGER, OPTIONAL

NORM, CSPHASE, LMAX_CALC

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<SHExpandGLQ> will expand a 2-dimensional grid of data sampled on the Gauss-Legendre quadrature nodes into spherical harmonics. This is the inverse of the routine I<MakeGridGLQ>. The latitudinal nodes of the input grid correspond to the zeros of the Legendre polynomial of degree LMAX+1, and the longitudinal nodes are equally spaced with an interval of 360/(2*LMAX+1) degrees. It is implicitly assumed that the function is bandlimited to degree LMAX. If the optional parameter LMAX_CALC is specified, the spherical harmonic coefficients will be calculated up to this degree, instead of LMAX.

The employed spherical harmonic normalization and Condon-Shortley phase convention can be set by the optional arguments NORM and CSPHASE; if not set, the default is to use geodesy 4-pi normalized harmonics that exclude the Condon-Shortley phase of (-1)^m.

The spherical harmonic transformation can be speeded up by precomputing the Legendre functions on the Gauss-Legendre quadrature nodes in the routine I<PreCompute>. However, given that this array contains on the order of LMAX**3 entries, this is only feasible for moderate values of LMAX.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 11

=item CILM 

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION (2, LMAX+1, LMAX+1) I<or> S<(2, LMAX_CALC+1, LMAX_CALC+1)>

The real spherical harmonic coefficients of the function. The coefficients C1lm and C2lm refer to the "cosine" (Clm) and "sine" (Slm) coefficients, respectively, with Clm = CILM(1, l+1, m+1) and Slm = CILM(2, l+1, m+1). Alternatively, C1lm and C2lm correspond to the positive and negative order coefficients, respectively.
	
=item LMAX

(input) INTEGER

The spherical harmonic bandwidth of the grid. If LMAX_CALC is not specified, this also corresponds to the maximum spherical harmonic degree of the coefficients CILM.

=item GRIDGLQ

(input) REAL*8, DIMENSION(LMAX+1, 2*LMAX+1)

A 2D grid of data sampled on the Gauss-Legendre quadrature nodes. The latitudinal nodes correspond to the zeros of the Legendre polynomial of degree LMAX+1, and the longitudinal nodes are equally spaced with an interval of 360/(2*LMAX+1) degrees. See also I<GLQGridCoord>.

=item W

(input) REAL*8, DIMENSION (LMAX+1)

The Gauss-Legendre quadrature weights used in the integration over latitude. These are obtained from a call to I<PreCompute>.

=item PLX

(input) REAL*8, OPTIONAL, DIMENSION (LMAX+1, (LMAX+1)*(LMAX+2)/2)

An array of the associated Legendre functions calculated at the Gauss-Legendre quadrature nodes. These are determined from a call to I<PreCompute>. Either PLX or ZERO must be present, but not both.
	
=item ZERO

(input) REAL*8, OPTIONAL, DIMENSION (LMAX+1)

The nodes used in the Gauss-Legendre quadrature over latitude, calculated by a call to I<PreCompute>.  Either PLX or ZERO must be present, but not both.
	
=item NORM

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

1 (default) = Geodesy 4-pi normalized harmonics; 2 = Schmidt semi-normalized harmonics; 3 = unnormalized harmonics; 4 = orthonormal harmonics.

=item CSPHASE

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

1 (default) = do not apply the Condon-Shortley phase factor to the associated Legendre functions; -1 = append the Condon-Shortley phase factor of (-1)^m to the associated Legendre functions.

=item LMAX_CALC

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

The maximum spherical harmonic degree calculated in the spherical harmonic expansion.

=back

=head1 NOTES

The normalized legendre functions are calculated in this routine using the scaling algorithm of Holmes and Featherstone (2002), which are accurate to about degree 2800. In contrast, the unnormalized functions are only accurate to about degree 15. This routine takes into account the symmetry of the associated Legendre functions about the equator in order to reduce computational time. 

=head1 SEE ALSO

makegridglq(1), glqgridcoord(1), precompute(1), shexpanddh(1), makegriddh(1), shexpandlsq(1)

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>

=head1 REFERENCES

Holmes, S. A., and W. E. Featherstone, A unified approach to the Clenshaw
summation and the recursive computation of very high degree and
order normalised associated Legendre functions, I<J. Geodesy>, 76, 279-
299, 2002.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.