=head1 SHFindLWin

=over 13

=item SHFindLWin -  

Determine the spherical-harmonic bandwidth that is necessary to achieve a certain concentration factor.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 30

=item INTEGER FUNCTION SHFindLWin ( 

THETA0, M, ALPHA, TAPER_NUMBER )

=back

=over 4

=over 20

=item REAL*8	

THETA0, ALPHA

=item INTEGER

M

=item INTEGER, OPTIONAL

TAPER_NUMBER

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<SHFindLWin> will determine the spherical harmonic bandwidth that is required for a window of the spherical-cap concentration problem to achive a certain concentration factor. By default, the first taper corresponding to the angular order M will be used, but this can be modified by specifying the optional argument TAPER_NUMBER. 

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 15

=item THETA0 

The angular radius of the spherical cap in RADIANS.

=item M

(input) INTEGER

The angular order of the taper.

=item ALPHA

(input) REAL*8

The desired concentration factor of the window. This must lie between 0 and 1.

=item TAPER_NUMBER

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

The taper number corresponding to the angular order M. The default is to use the first taper.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

computed0(1), computedg82(1), computedm(1), shreturntapers(1), shreturntapersm(1)

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>

=head1 REFERENCES

Wieczorek, M. A. and F. J. Simons, Localized spectral analysis on the sphere, 
I<Geophys. J. Int.>, 162, 655-675.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.