=head1 SHLocalizedAdmitCorr

=over 23

=item SHLocalizedAdmitCorr -  

Calculate the localized admittance and correlation spectra of two functions at a given location.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 34

=item SUBROUTINE SHLocalizedAdmitCorr ( 

TAPERS, TAPER_ORDER, LWIN, LAT, LON, GILM, TILM, LMAX, ADMIT, CORR, K, ADMIT_ERROR, CORR_ERROR, TAPER_WT, MTDEF, K1LINSIG )

=back

=over 4

=over 19

=item REAL*8	

TAPERS(LWIN+1, K), LAT, LON, S<GILM(2, LMAX+1, LMAX+1)>, S<TILM(2, LMAX+1, LMAX+1)>, ADMIT(LMAX-LWIN+1), CORR(LMAX-LWIN+1)

=item INTEGER

TAPER_ORDER(K), LWIN, LMAX, K

=item REAL*8, OPTIONAL

ADMIT_ERROR(LMAX-LWIN+1), CORR_ERRR(LMAX-LWIN+1), TAPER_WT(K)

=item INTEGER, OPTIONAL

MTDEF, K1LINSIG

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<SHLocalizedAdmitCorr> will calculate the localized admittance and degree correlation spectra of two functions at a given location. The windowing functions are assumed to be solutions to the spherical-cap concentration problem (as calculated by I<SHReturnTapers> or I<SHReturnTapersM>), of which the best K concentrated tapers are utilized. If K is greater than 1, then estimates of the standard error for the admittance and correlation will be returned in the optional arrays ADMIT_ERROR and CORR_ERROR. The symmetry axis of the localizing windows are rotated to the coordinates (LAT, LON) before performing the windowing operation.

The admittance is defined as Sgt/Stt, where Sgt is the localized cross-power spectrum of two functions G and T expressed in spherical harmonics. The localized degree-correlation spectrum is defined as Sgt / sqrt( Sgg Stt ), which can possess values between -1 and 1. Two methods are available for calculating the multitaper admittance and correlation functions. When MTDEF is 1 (default), the multitaper estimates and errors of Sgt, Stt, and Sgg are calculated by calls to I<SHMultiTaperSE> and I<SHMultiTaperCSE>, and these results are then used to calculate the final admittance and correlation functions. When MTDEF is 2, the admitance and correlation are calculated invidivually for each individual taper, and these results are then averaged.

If the optional parameter K1LINSIG is specified, and only a single taper is being used, the uncertainty in the admittance function will be calculated by assuming the gravity and topography coefficients are related by a linear degree-dependent transfer function and that the lack of correlation is a result of uncorrelated noise. These errors should not be used if it is suspected that the gravity and topography are the result of partially to unccorrelated surface  and subsurface loads.

When MTDEF is 1, by default, the multitaper spectral estimates are calculated as an unweighted average of the individual tapered estimates. However, if the optional argument TAPER_WT is specified, a weighted average will be employed using the weights in this array. Minimum variance optimal weights can be obtained from the routines I<SHMTVarOpt> and I<SHMTVarOpt0> if the form of the underlying global power spectrum is known (or can be estimated). Taper weights can not be used when MTDEF is 2

This routine assumes that the input functions and tapers are expressed using geodesy 4-pi normalized spherical harmonic functions that exclude the  Condon-Shortley phase factor of (-1)^m.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 14

=item TAPERS

(input) REAL*8, DIMENSION (LWIN+1, K)

A matrix of localization functions obtained from I<SHReturnTapers> or I<SHReturnTapersM>.

=item TAPER_ORDER

(input) INTEGER, DIMENSION (K)

The angular order of the windowing coefficients in TAPERS. If this matrix was created using I<SHReturnTapersM>, then this array must be composed of zeros.

=item LWIN

(input) INTEGER

The spherical harmonic bandwidth of the localizing windows.

=item LAT

(input) REAL*8

The latitude of the localized analysis in DEGREES.

=item LON

(input) REAL*8

The longitude of the localized analysis in DEGREES.

=item GILM

(input) REAL*8, DIMENSION (2, LMAX+1, LMAX+1)

The spherical harmonic coefficients of the function G.

=item TILM

(input) REAL*8, DIMENSION (2, LMAX+1, LMAX+1)

The spherical harmonic coefficients of the function T.
	
=item LMAX

(input) INTEGER

The maximum spherical harmonic degree of the input functions corresponding to GILM and TILM.

=item ADMIT

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION (LMAX-LWIN+1)

The admittance function, which is equal to Sgt / Stt.

=item CORR

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION (LMAX-LWIN+1)

The degree correlation function, which is equal to Sgt / sqrt ( Sgg Stt ).

=item K

(input) INTEGER

The number of tapers to be used in the multitaper spectral analysis.

=item ADMIT_ERROR

(output) REAL*8, OPTIONAL, DIMENSION (LMAX-LWIN+1)

The standard error of the admittance function.

=item CORR_ERROR

(output) REAL*8, OPTIONAL, DIMENSION (LMAX-LWIN+1)

The standard error of the degree correlation function.

=item TAPER_WT

(input) REAL*8, OPTIONAL, DIMENSION (K)

The weights to be applied to the spectral estimates when calculating the admittance, correlation, and their associated errors. This must sum to unity.

=item MTDEF

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

1 (default): Calculate the multitaper spectral estimates Sgt, Sgg and Stt first, and then use these to calculate the admittance and correlation functions. 2: Calculate admittance and correlation spectra using each individual taper, and then average these to obtain the multitaper admittance and correlation functions.

=item K1LINSIG

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

If equal to one, and only a single taper is being used, the errors in the admittance function will be calculated by assuming that the gravity and topography coefficients are related by a linear degree-dependent transfer function and that the lack of correlation is a result of uncorrelated noise. These errors should not be used if it is suspected that the gravity and topography are the result of partially correlated loads. This is the square root of eq. 33 of Simons et al. 1997.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

shreturntapers(1), shreturntapersm(1), shmultitaperse(1), shmultitapercse(1)

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>

=head1 REFERENCES

Wieczorek, M. A. and F. J. Minimum-variance multitaper spectral estimation on the sphere, I<J. Fourier Anal. Appl.>, 13, doi:10.1007/s00041-006-6904-1, 665-692, 2007.

Simons, F. J., F. A. Dahlen and M. A. Wieczorek, Spatiospectral concentration on the sphere, I<SIAM Review>, 48, 504-536, doi:10.1137/S0036144504445765, 2006. 

Wieczorek, M. A. and F. J. Simons, Localized spectral analysis on the sphere, 
I<Geophys. J. Int.>, 162, 655-675, 2005.

Simons, M., S. C. Solomon and B. H. Hager, Localization of gravity and topography: constrains on the tectonics and mantle dynamics of Venus, I<Geophys. J. Int.>, 131, 24-44, 1997.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.