=head1 SHSjkPG0

=over 11

=item SHSjkPG0 -  

Calculate the expectation of the product of two functions, each multiplied by a different zonal data taper, for a given spherical harmonic degree and angular order.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 18

=item REAL*8 SHSjkPG0 ( 

INCSPECTRA, J, K, L, M, EVEC, LWIN )

=back

=over 4

=over 10

=item REAL*8	

INCPECTRA(L+LWIN+1), EVEC(LWIN+1, LWIN+1)

=item INTEGER

J, K, L, M, LWIN

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<SHSjkPG0> will calculate the expectation of two functions (f and g), each localized by a different zonal data taper that is a solution of the spherical cap concentration problem, for a given spherical harmonic degree and angular order. As described in Wieczorek and Simons (2005, eq. D8), this is the function


      /    (j)        (k) \
     |  Phi      Gamma     |
      \    lm         lm  /

The global cross-power spectrum of f and g is input as INCSPECTRA, and the real coefficients of the data tapers (obtained by a call to I<SHReturnTapersM>) is input as the matrix EVEC. 


=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 14

=item INCSPECTRA

(input) REAL*8, DIMENSION (L+LWIN+1)

The global cross-power spectrum of f and g.

=item J

(input) INTEGER

The taper number (corresponding to the column of EVEC) that is used to localize the first function f.

=item K

(input) INTEGER

The taper number (corresponding to the column of EVEC) that is used to localize the second function g.

=item L

(input) INTEGER

The spherical harmonic degree for which to calculate the expectation.

=item M

(input) INTEGER

The angular order for which to calculated the expectation.

=item EVEC

(input) REAL*8, DIMENSION (LWIN+1, LWIN+1)

The spherical harmonic coefficients that are the solutions to the zonal spherical-cap concentration problem. These are arranged in columns, and are obtained by a call to I<SHReturnTapersM>.

=item LWIN

(input) INTEGER

The spherical harmonic bandwidth of the localizing windows.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

shreturntaper0(1), shmtvaropt0(1), shmtvaropt(1), shsjkpg(1)

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>

=head1 REFERENCES

Wieczorek, M. A. and F. J. Simons, Localized spectral analysis on the sphere, 
I<Geophys. J. Int.>, 162, 655-675.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.