=head1 PreCompute

=over 13

=item PreCompute -  

Precompute weights, nodes, and associated Legendre functions used in the GLQ-based spherical harmonics routines.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 24

=item SUBROUTINE PreCompute ( 

LMAX, ZERO, W, PLX, WISDOM_FILE, NORM, CSPHASE, CNORM )

=back

=over 4

=over 24

=item REAL*8	

ZERO(LMAX+1), W(LMAX+1)

=item INTEGER

LMAX

=item REAL*8, OPTIONAL

S<PLX(LMAX+1, (LMAX+1)*(LMAX+2)/2)>

=item INTEGER, OPTIONAL

NORM, CSPHASE, CNORM

=item CHARACTER(*), OPTIONAL 

WISDOM_FILE

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<PreCompute> will calculate the weights and zeros used in the Gauss-Legendre quadrature based spherical harmonic routines I<SHExpandGLQ>, I<MakeGridGLQ>, I<SHExpandGLQC>, and I<MakeGridGLQC>. Optionally, an array of the associated Legendre functions evaluated on the quadrature nodes can be computed as well. For the first call to this routine, a system wide FFTW wisdom file will be read from /etc/fftw/wisdom (if present) or the optionally specified file in WISDOM_FILE. If the complex routines are to be used, the optional parameter CNORM must here be set equal to 1.

The employed spherical harmonic normalization and Condon-Shortley phase convention can be set by the optional arguments NORM and CSPHASE; if not set, the default is to use geodesy 4-pi normalized harmonics that exclude the Condon-Shortley phase of (-1)^m. 

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 13

=item LMAX

(input) INTEGER

The maximum spherical harmonic degree of the coefficients to be calculated in the Gauss-Legendre quadrature based spherical harmonic transform routines.

=item ZERO

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION (LMAX+1)

The nodes used in the Gauss-Legendre quadrature over latitude, determined from a call to I<PreGLQ>.

=item W

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION (LMAX+1)

The weights used in the Gauss-Legendre quadrature over latitude, determined from a call to I<PreGLQ>.


=item PLX

(output) REAL*8, OPTIONAL, DIMENSION (LMAX+1, (LMAX+1)*(LMAX+2)/2)

An array of the associated Legendre functions calculated at the nodes used in the Gauss-Legendre quadrature. 
	
=item WISDOM_FILE

(input) CHARACTER(*), OPTIONAL

The location of the FFTW wisdom file that will be read during the first call to this routine.

=item NORM

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

1 (default) = Geodesy 4-pi normalized harmonics; 2 = Schmidt semi-normalized harmonics; 3 = unnormalized harmonics; 4 = orthonormal harmonics.

=item CSPHASE

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

1 (default) = do not apply the Condon-Shortley phase factor to the associated Legendre functions; -1 = append the Condon-Shortley phase factor of (-1)^m to the associated Legendre functions.

=item CNORM

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

If 1, the complex normalization of the associated Legendre functions will be used: This must be set if the complex routines I<SHExpandGLQC> and I<MakeGridGLQC> are to be used. The default is to use the real normalization.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

shexpandglq(1), makegridglq(1), shexpandglqc(1), makegridglqc(1), glqgridcoord(1), preglq(1)

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>


=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.