=head1 RandomGaussian

=over 17

=item RandomGaussian -  

Return a pseudo Gaussian deviate of zero mean and unit variance.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 33

=item REAL*8 FUNCTION RandomGaussian ( 

SEED )

=back

=over 4

=over 11

=item INTEGER

SEED

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<RandomGaussian> will return a Gaussian random deviate with unit variance and zero mean. The underlying random number generator uses the algorithm of Park and Miller combined with a Marsaglia shift sequence, which is claimed to have a periodicity of about 3.1 10^18. The random number generator is intialized by calling with a negative value of SEED, and afterwards, this variable should not be modified. To obtain a Gaussian deviate with a standard deviation of SIGMA, it is only necessary to multiply the unit variance deviate by this value.


=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 13

=item SEED

(input/output) INTEGER

Input a negative integer to (re-)initialize the random number generator. Afterwards, this argument should not be modified.

=back

=head1 NOTES

This is a slightly modified version of the algorithm that was published in NUMERICAL RECIPES as GASDEV.

=head1 SEE ALSO

randomn(1)

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>

=head1 REFERENCES

Press, W.H., S.A. Teukolsky, W.T. Vetterling, and B.P. Flannery, Numerical Recipes in FORTRAN: The Art of Scientific Computing, 2nd ed., Cambridge Univ. Press, Cambridge, UK, 1992.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.