=head1 SHCilmToCindex

=over 17

=item SHCilmToCindex -  

Convert a three-dimensional array of complex spherical harmonic coefficients to a two-dimensional indexed array.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 28

=item SUBROUTINE SHCilmToCindex ( 

CILM, CINDEX, DEGMAX )

=back

=over 4

=over 20

=item REAL*8	

CILM(2, *, *), CINDEX(2, *)

=item INTEGER, OPTIONAL

DEGMAX

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<SHCilmToCindex> will convert a three-dimensional array of complex spherical harmonic coefficients to a two-dimensional indexed array.  The degree L and order M corresponds to the index L*(L+1)/2+M+1. The default is to convert the entire array CILM, but a subset of this array can be converted by specifying the optional argument DEGMAX.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 13

=item CILM

(input) REAL*8, DIMENSION (2, *, *)

The input complex spherical harmonic coefficients. S<CILM(1, *, *)> and S<CILM(2, *, *)> correspond to the real and imaginary components, respectively.
	
=item CINDEX

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION (2, *)

The indexed output complex spherical harmonic coefficients. The second dimension of this array must be greater than (LMAX+1)*(LMAX+2)/2 where LMAX is the maximum degree of CILM.

=item DEGMAX

(input) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

The maximum degree of the output coefficients. By default, the entire array CCILM will be converted.


=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

shctor(1), shrtoc(1), shcindextocilm(1)

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>


=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.