=head1 SHReturnTapers

=over 17

=item SHReturnTapers -  

Calculate the eigenfunctions of the spherical-cap concentration problem.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 28

=item SUBROUTINE SHReturnTapers ( 

THETA0, LMAX, TAPERS, EIGENVALUES, TAPER_ORDER )

=back

=over 4

=over 10

=item REAL*8	

THETA0, TAPERS(LMAX+1, (LMAX+1)**2), S<EIGENVALUES((LMAX+1)**2)>

=item INTEGER

LMAX, TAPER_ORDER((LMAX+1)**2)

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<SHReturnTapers> will calculate the eigenfunctions (i.e., localization windows) of the spherical-cap concentration problem. Each column of the matrix TAPERS contains the spherical harmonic coefficients of a single window and the corresponding concentration factor is given in the array EIGENVALUES.  Each window has non-zero coefficients for only a single angular order that is specified in TAPER_ORDER: all other spherical harmonic coefficients for a given window are identically zero. The columns of TAPERS are ordered from best to worst concentrated, and the first and last rows of each column correspond to spherical harmonic degrees 0 and LMAX, respectively. The localization windows are normalized such that they have unit power.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 14

=item THETA0

(input) REAL*8

The angular radius of the spherical cap in RADIANS.

=item LMAX

(input) INTEGER

The spherical harmonic bandwidth of the localization windows.

=item TAPERS

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION (LMAX+1, (LMAX+1)**2)

The spherical harmonic coefficients of the (LMAX+1)**2 localization windows. Each column contains the coefficients of a single window that possesses non-zero coefficients for the single angular order specified in TAPER_ORDER. The first and last rows of each column correspond to spherical harmonic degrees 0 and LMAX, respectively, and the columns are arranged from best to worst concentrated.

=item EIGENVALUES

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION ((LMAX+1)**2)

The concentration factors of the localization windows.

=item TAPER_ORDER

(output) INTEGER, DIMENSION ((LMAX+1)**2)

The angular order of the non-zero spherical harmonic coefficients in each column of TAPERS.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

shreturntapersm(1), computedg82(1), computed0(1), computedm(1)

L<http://shtools.ipgp.fr/>

=head1 REFERENCES

Wieczorek, M. A. and F. J. Simons, Localized spectral analysis on the sphere, 
I<Geophys. J. Int.>, 162, 655-675.

Simons, F.J., F.A. Dahlen, and M.A. Wieczorek, Spatiospectral concentration on a sphere, I<SIAM Review>, 48, 504-536, 2006.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.